---
layout: post
title: "33c3 Talk: Beyond VR and AR" 
category: posts
tagline: "Application cases for Smart Eyewear" 
summary: "Last year I gave a talk at the 33c3 about recent trends in research beyond virtual and augmented reality."
picture: "beyondvr2"
---

Last year I gave a talk at the 33c3 about recent
trends in research beyond virtual and augmented reality.

Although most of the talk focuses on Superhuman Sports, 
I go also into some details about enabeling technologies, mentioning smart eyewear
and also the Presto project.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aEFaInB0Dp4" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Here's the abstract of the talk:

With recent development in capture technology, 
preserving one's’ daily experiences and one's’ knowledge 
becomes richer and more comprehensive. Furthermore, 
new recording technologies beyond simple audio/video
recordings become available: 360° videos, tactile 
recorders and even odor recorders are becoming available. 
The new recording technology and the massive amounts of 
data require new means for selecting, displaying and 
sharing experiences.

Sharing experiences and knowledge have always been essential 
for human development. They enable skill transfers and empathy. 
  Over history, mankind developed from oral traditions to 
  cultures of writing. With the ongoing digital revolution, 
  the hurdles to share knowledge and experiences vanish. 
  Already today it is, for example, technically feasible 
  to take and store 24/7 video recordings of one's’ life. 
  While this example creates massive collections of data, it makes it even more challenging to share experiences and knowledge with others in meaningful ways.
